---
title: "Safe gradient flow for bilevel optimization"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/ACC-2025
excerpt: 'In this work, we propose a control-theoretic approach to solving bilevel optimization problems in continuous-time.'
date: 2025/01
venue: 'The 2025 American Control Conference (ACC)'
# slidesurl: 'https://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/2501.16520?'
# bibtexurl: 'https://academicpages.github.io/files/bibtex1.bib'
# citation: 'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
---
Bilevel optimization is a key framework in hierarchical decision-making, where one problem
is embedded within the constraints of another. In this work, we propose a control-theoretic
approach to solving bilevel optimization problems. Our method consists of two components:
a gradient flow mechanism to minimize the upper-level objective and a safety filter to enforce
the constraints imposed by the lower-level problem. Together, these components form a safe
gradient flow that solves the bilevel problem in a single loop. To improve scalability with
respect to the lower-level problem’s dimensions, we introduce a relaxed formulation and design
a compact variant of the safe gradient flow. This variant minimizes the upper-level objective
while ensuring the lower-level decision variable remains within a user-defined suboptimality.
Using Lyapunov analysis, we establish convergence guarantees for the dynamics, proving that
they converge to a neighborhood of the optimal solution. Numerical experiments further validate
the effectiveness of the proposed approaches. Our contributions provide both theoretical insights
and practical tools for efficiently solving bilevel optimization problems.
